-[birds chirping]
-[soft, idyllic music playing]
[duckling chirping]
[aeroplane engine whirring]
[funky techno music playing]
[wind chimes tinkling]
[goose honks]
[squeaking]
[wind chimes tinkling]
[sighs]
[in American accent]
Another delicious day in Bake Off Land.
-[in American accent] Hi, Barbie Alison.
-Hi, Barbie Noel.
[chime tinkling]
[in normal voice] Wait a minute.
I was supposed to be Barbie.
[in normal voice]
We talked about this. I'm Barbie.
No, we said that it's the person
with the best legs is Barbie.
Exactly. Check out my chicken drummers.
They're supreme.
[sighs] There's only one way
to settle this.
You're right.
[both] Ken!
[harp playing]
Oh, not this again.
You're really great at judging.
Who's the best Barbie?
I'll tell you who the best Barbie is.
And it's neither of you two.
[gasps]
Ah, another delicious day
in Bake Off Land.
He's into Weird Barbie.
[all] Welcome to
The Great British Baking Show.
-[wind chimes tinkling]
-[harp playing]
-[bird chirping]
-[tense music playing]
[whispering] There's a tent
right over there, and it's very scary.
[ducks quacking]
[chuckling] Don't know how I got here.
Like, what am I doing?
[Sumayah] The last time
I felt this nervous?
Either before my A-level results
or when I was in queue to get tickets
for the Taylor Swift concert. [laughs]
[Alison] They applied in their thousands.
When I came first in England,
this show was the first thing I ever saw.
My husband said, "You should go there."
He doesn't like my baking, but never mind.
[Alison] Just 12 of Britain's best
amateur bakers have made it to the tent.
This is an absolute dream.
My mum told me not to cry.
Mm, I cried three times yesterday,
so… [laughs]
[Alison] Over the next ten weeks,
they'll face 30 brand-new challenges.
Food is my love language.
If I can make people happy,
it's always with feeding them.
I'm comfort eating.
[both laughing]
She actually bit me.
[Alison] Every inch of their baking skill
will be scrutinised.
-The jam, it's too sticky.
-What makes you say that?
[both laugh]
[Alison] Under the ever-watchful eyes
of Prue Leith…
One of the most interesting cakes
I've ever eaten, and delicious.
-[Alison] …and Paul Hollywood.
-I might be a little bit more brutal.
[Andy] Paul don't like one of my bakes,
I'll jack up his car,
take off his wheels, make a few quid.
Happy days.
[Alison] Each week, the cream of the crop…
-That's unbelievable.
-Aw.
-[Alison] …will be crowned Star Baker.
-Lovely jubbly!
-[Alison] Those that falter…
-[utensils clang]
I'm sorry.
-[Alison] …will leave the tent.
-You know the old adage,
doesn't matter if you win or lose
as long as you win.
[Alison] But who will win
The Great British Baking Show?
[Sumayah] One wrong move and it's over.
[exhales] Gotta breathe.
[sing-song] Carnage!
Are you serious? I've got nothing made.
There's nothing here to show.
What? [laughs]
She's gonna get rid of me. I can see it.
No, I can't choose, but I do love him.
-He's my…
-Oh, God. It's the worst day of my life.
[opening theme music playing]
-[jubilant string music playing]
-[birds chirping]
[Alison] It's Cake Week,
and after three challenges,
one of our new batch of bakers
will be crowned Star Baker,
while one will have to leave the tent.
Welcome, new bakers,
for your first-ever challenge.
Now, Noel and I have been up all night
putting this tent up,
scrubbing out the ovens.
It's been tough, ain't it?
Getting Paul and Prue
out of the wooden boxes
they're in when they hibernate.
[all laugh]
So, for your first-ever challenge,
the judges would like you to bake
an elevated version
of your signature loaf cake.
When we say elevated,
you can't just pop it on the top shelf.
-[all chuckle]
-You have two hours.
-On your marks.
-Get set.
Bake!
[excited squealing]
Okay.
-[Alison squealing]
-[Noel chuckling]
Baking in the tent is just…
mad. Like, what is happening?
I'm nervous and shaky.
I feel like it's not real.
We're not on the real Bake Off.
It's like a fake version.
Oh, no. [laughs]
What am I in for?
[Prue] The bakers' first-ever challenge
is a loaf cake,
and a loaf cake just means a cake
in the shape of a loaf.
[Paul] It's all about the sponge,
the texture and the flavour.
It's like the baking Holy Trinity.
To really impress me,
they need to have something
that surprises me.
They could put two kinds
of sponge together so it looks marbled,
or bury something interesting inside.
[Paul] Time management is critical.
Don't put decoration
on top of a warm cake.
It'll literally just melt and slide off.
It's gonna be tricky.
-[birds chirping]
-[Paul] Good morning.
-Good morning.
-Morning.
-[Noel] Hi.
So, are you happy in this tent?
I'm very happy in this tent
'cause I don't have my kids here.
[all laugh]
-[Prue] Tell us about your loaf cake.
-This is a cinnamon roll loaf cake.
My youngest sister loves a cinnamon roll.
[Noel] One of eight siblings,
midwife Illiyin lives in Norfolk
with husband Umar and their two children,
Ihsan and Talha.
[Illiyin laughs] Good job!
[Noel] She'll add
a crunchy cinnamon pecan base
to her generously cinnamon-swirled sponge
that she'll bake in a special tin.
[Paul] Any troubles with it sticking?
-[quirky, playful music playing]
-[all laughing]
[Noel] What will stop it sticking?
I'm not gonna say that.
-That's not really very fair.
-[laughter]
You're setting the bar
for our friendship here.
[all laughing]
[Alison] Gill's cake is also dedicated
to a sibling with a sweet tooth.
I'm making a chocolate orange loaf cake.
This is for my sister, V.
She bullied me into applying.
So it's all her fault that I'm here.
[Alison] Marketing manager Gill
lives in Lancashire,
close to mum and bowls partner, Jean.
[Gill] Oh, okay, show-off.
[laughs]
[Alison] She'll cover a chocolate
and orange marbled sponge
with chocolate and orange buttercream
and candied orange slices.
Gill, it sounds absolutely delicious.
You're starting with
two of the best flavours in the world.
-[Noel] Classic.
-I don't think you can mess it up.
-[Noel and Gill] Don't say that!
-[laughter]
There's a myriad of ways
we can mess things.
-That's all gone wrong now.
-[laughter]
[Alison] For the tried and tested…
-You can't beat the classics.
-…John's joining the party.
[John] I'm doing
a cherry and chocolate cake.
This is cherry paste
to get the cherry flavour in the cake.
I hope for the best
and keep putting it in.
[Alison] West Midlands born and bred,
NHS manager John
likes to let his hair down
with a margarita or two.
-Now this is where we get tequila…
-[laughs]
…all over the place.
[Alison] Inspired by a family holiday
to the Bavarian Alps,
John will top his Black Forest loaf cake
with dark chocolate ganache
and cherry macarons.
-My little West Midlands bunny.
-Hi, bab. You okay?
-Hello, babs. How are you?
-I'm good.
-What's going on?
-This is my chocolate and cherry cake.
[Alison] What do people say
when they eat this?
Not a lot. They're busy eating it.
-Seriously?
-Yeah.
Or it'll stick their teeth together
and they can't say anything.
Does it? Can't speak.
-Oh, hello.
-[Noel] Andy's gone for a classic too.
So this is my lemon drizzle.
[Noel] And his traditional British
teatime treat is soaked in nostalgia.
I used to always bake with my mum.
And then, when I left home,
this was the first bake
that I learnt to make,
and it's been a firm family favourite.
[Noel] Mechanic Andy lives in Essex
with partner Nickie,
their daughter Maisie and dog Arthur.
[Andy] Arthur.
[Noel] While family life's busy,
he always finds time
-to grab a bite with mum Sheila.
-[Sheila] Good cockney grub.
Good health. Lovely.
[Noel] Inspired by Sheila's prize garden,
Andy will pipe lemon buttercream flowers
on top of his loaf cake
wrapped in a white chocolate collar.
-Hello.
-Hello. How you doing?
The pencil's come out a bit.
Like a sort of snail's antennae.
-I was pleased to see ya.
-Is that what's happened?
I was gonna wear a pink hat.
-They said, "No".
-Yeah.
My missus said you're gonna go on there
looking like Timmy Mallett.
It's your own fault
for dressing like a 12-year-old.
[laughs]
[Alison] Andy's isn't the only
lemon loaf cake in the tent.
[Mike] Ooh.
[Alison] But Mike's
breaking with tradition.
[Mike] Instead of lemon and poppyseed,
I'm going with lemon and linseed
from our farm.
The eggs are from the farm.
Everything, well, not everything.
I didn't grow lemon in Wiltshire.
[Alison] Fourth-generation farmer Mike
lives with partner Matt
and their whippet Todd.
-Good boy. [laughs]
-Yes.
[Alison] Soaked in lemon and lime syrup
and covered in lemon buttercream,
Mike will marble his loaf cake
yellow and purple.
Purple for the flowers of the linseed
and then yellow for the lemon.
Is this giving you a panic attack, Paul,
how messy this is?
-[laughter]
-It'll be clean when it's over.
But you're judging us on our bake
and not on our--
No. This is all part and parcel of it.
[gasps] Don't tell me that now.
Haven't practiced that.
-Good luck.
-Thank you.
Ahh… [wheezes]
[Alison] While the judges
might not demand a tidy bench,
they will expect
a beautifully light, fluffy sponge.
[Illiyin] It's quite a soft cake.
I have practiced a lot.
Best be precise for Paul and Prue.
[Georgie] Not gonna measure this.
I'll just go for it.
Let's hope for the best.
Just shove it all in.
I don't measure anything.
That's how my grandmother
told me to cook, my nonna.
[Noel] Georgie's a paediatric nurse
who lives in the Welsh countryside
with her husband, their three children,
Blake, Aiden and Imogen
and Fanny, her prized hen.
[Georgie] Fanny. Fanny.
Right, Fanny, submit.
[laughs] Oh, she won't go.
[Noel] Georgie will top her cake
with salted caramel macarons
and chocolate and vanilla ganache
to elevate a cake
inspired by her Italian grandmother.
[Georgie] Her cake,
we call it a nonna cake,
and it's just the best cake ever.
[grunts]
[Noel] She's forgotten
one of nonna's key ingredients.
[Georgie] I'm missing the sunflower oil.
Thought it was dry.
Just add it in now. Sure it'll be fine.
[Alison] Not only must the bakers' sponge
be delicious…
[Gill] It's stripey time.
…but look beautiful too.
When you cut into it,
you should see stripes. That's the plan.
I'm marbling cinnamon cream
in my very well-oiled tin.
[Alison] And whilst some
add a surprise swirl inside their loaves…
[John] It's about mixing the batters
without mixing them too much.
I've done that in the past,
and it's mixed all together.
[Alison] …Sumayah…
-plans to hide an entire dessert.
-[laughs]
My loaf cake is inspired by a carrot cake,
but using halwa,
which is like a South Asian dessert.
My mum taught me how to make it.
[Alison] Our youngest baker,
18-year-old dentistry student Sumayah
lives in Lancashire with mum Samson
and pet duck Pato.
[Sumayah] He's had enough.
[Alison] She'll balance
her sweet carrot halwa centre
with cream cheese icing.
A combination approved by Mum.
She's tested this recipe. She likes it.
I thought it was too sweet,
but I'll take her word.
[Alison] Jeff's cake
features a secret centre too.
This is the hidden bit in the middle,
the star.
It's a tribute to my wife,
the guiding light in the family.
[Alison] Retired university lecturer Jeff
grew up in the Bronx.
Married for over 40 years,
he and English wife, Catherine,
live in Yorkshire with dog, Josie.
Celebrating his wife's favourite flavours,
Jeff's raspberry star will be hidden
inside a zesty lemon and almond sponge.
-My family love anyone from America.
-Oh, right.
Unfortunately, I start talking
in an American accent.
[both in New York accent] How you doing?
[laughter]
-If you're cool with my Birmingham accent.
-Go for it.
-All right, babs.
-[imitating Alison] All right, babs.
[laughs]
[Gill] Little cake, godspeed.
[Noel] The loaf cake's deep sponge
requires a long time in the oven.
I'm gonna bake it for 45 minutes
and then check.
-It's a long bake, 55 minutes.
-[device beeps]
Oh, no. I've gone all the way up now.
Look. Crying out loud.
-[device beeps]
-No, stop.
[Noel] But every minute spent baking
is one less to cool and decorate.
It's the cooling, to put the icing on
so it doesn't all just slide off.
That's the toughest part of this.
It should be about 50 minutes to one hour,
so I hope I just gonna manage it.
If it's go wrong,
that's special Slovakian loaf.
[Noel] Care assistant Nelly moved
to the UK from Slovakia 19 years ago.
She lives in Dorset with her husband Chand
and their two boys, Samir and Idris.
-[Nelly] Oh, big one. Ah!
-[whimpers] Mum!
[Noel] A family favourite,
Nelly will pipe pineapple jam
and coconut ganache
inside her coconut sponge.
-Is this your book?
-Nothing in there, to be quite honest.
Today I went into the tent and I saw Noel.
I love him with all my heart.
Did you write this? [laughs]
-You're the top.
-I am?
-Number one.
-You respect me the most?
No, I love you the most.
I love your humour.
-Half of the humour I don't understand.
-Me neither.
Perfect couple we are, you see.
I've got a good feeling about you.
You're gonna win.
[laughs]
Well, that didn't work.
[Alison] Dylan's hoping tropical flavours
are a hit with the judges too.
[Dylan] I'm making
a sticky mango rice loaf cake.
I went to Thailand last year
and sticky mango rice
was one of my favourite things.
[Alison] Dylan lives with his parents
in Buckinghamshire.
A keen skateboarder,
he's a bit rusty after his gap year
travelling around Southeast Asia.
He's recreating his favourite Thai dessert
with a mango compote-filled
coconut sponge.
But with his cake already in the oven…
[Dylan] Whoa. That's not good.
…Dylan's discovered a problem.
[Dylan] I've buggered up the cake.
I didn't add the coconut yoghurt
at the beginning.
Slightly worried
that might have done something.
-[tense music playing]
-[Noel] Bakers!
-You have half an-- No, sorry.
-[laughs]
-I don't know what you've got.
-[all laugh]
-Anxiety now!
-How long have we got then?
You are halfway through.
-Ah!
-I know.
Right, Stormtrooper gloves on.
[Noel] The bakers now walk the tightrope
between time and temperature.
[Andy] That's fantastic. Wallop.
[Noel] The quicker they can start
cooling their cakes…
It looks a bit different than usual.
But we'll, er, see.
…the better their chances of avoiding
a melting mess when they decorate.
[Jeff] Not quite.
That's not done, I can tell from there.
Back in the oven. Cook, my baby.
[tense music playing]
-[Noel] But the bakers can't relax.
-Come on. Hurry up.
[Noel] To produce perfect toppings
and decorations, every minute counts.
[Gill] I'm making candied oranges.
Hopefully they should stand up
nice and proud on my cake.
These things? Macarons.
Georgie's doing macarons.
So it's a battle of the macarons.
[Georgie] They're so temperamental.
They've only gone wrong a couple of times,
so hopefully today they won't go wrong.
[Christiaan] This is apple miso fudge.
I love using miso in all my cooking.
There's miso in the batter as well.
Proper miso overload.
[Alison] Fashion designer Christiaan
left the Netherlands for London
seven years ago,
where he wooed partner Nick
with his mum's famous apple pie.
Cake, Moeder?
[Christiaan's mother in Dutch]
Oh, delicious.
[Alison] Christiaan will pipe a sweet
and savoury apple-miso fudge filling
into his loaf cake for maximum flavour.
Your accent, let's talk your accent.
Where is it from,
because sometimes I hear up north.
-Yeah.
-Sometimes down south.
-I'm from the Netherlands originally.
-Yes.
I travelled in Australia when I was 18.
When I came to London
my first housemate was Scottish.
Loads of my friends were Welsh
and my boyfriend is from South London.
And now you're with me. You are honora…
-honorary Brummie.
-[laughs]
-Can't even say it.
-Thank you.
[tense music playing]
Bakers, half an hour left.
Ah!
This cold blowing in
through the side of the tent,
I tell you, I can't feel my face.
-God almighty.
-So cold.
[Noel] But the bakers
who are still in the oven…
-It's not behaving.
-…are feeling the heat.
[Gill] Ooh, don't do that, Gill.
No, it's still not done.
Needs to go in a bit longer.
Ooh, jeopardy's building.
Oh, that's not good.
It should be cooked by now.
But it's not,
so we're not gonna panic. And…
Yeah. [laughs] I'm gonna turn the oven up.
-[Illiyin] That's done.
-Perfect.
I just wanna get this cool.
-In the freezer or the fridge?
-[Nelly] Freezer.
Might not need the fridge.
[laughs, exhales]
-I'm just gonna fill the cake. Ooh.
-[Dylan] This is mango compote.
[Christiaan] The fudge insert
needs to go down.
[Nelly] I just fill it with pineapple jam
and white chocolate cream.
[John] This is more like cherry flavour
with cherry sugar syrup.
[Noel] But before Illiyin
can glaze her cake,
she faces the delicate task
of removing her cinnamon sponge
from its sticky tin.
[Illiyin] The risk is losing
some of my cake.
[tense music playing]
[sing-song] It came out!
I feel like I can breathe now.
[Georgie] I'm not happy with that.
[Noel] Georgie's macarons
haven't fared quite so well.
[Georgie] It's really thick.
My macarons have failed as well.
It's not whipping up.
I think it's the temperature in here.
It's so cold.
[Noel] The temperature in the tent
isn't just affecting the macarons.
[Andy] I'm just about to prepare
the old chocolate collar now.
This is all setting.
It is unbelievable.
It's so cold, it's setting
without going in the fridge. [laughs]
[bingo caller] Sweet 16.
[Alison] Bingo fanatic
and grandmother of ten,
Hazel's a retired nail technician
from Kent.
-Yes!
-[all laugh]
-What's my prize?
[Alison] Hazel will decorate her raspberry
and white chocolate marbled sponge
with ruby chocolate shards.
-How you doing, Hazel?
-I'm fine.
-Not too cold in here?
-I'm frozen.
Are you? Do you need a little warm up.
-Got my water bottle down here.
-Have you-- [laughs]
-Got a water bottle.
-You've got a Hammond now.
-[laughs]
-I can warm you up.
-Oh, lovely.
-My little Hazel.
I'll even stir it for you as well.
[Georgie] We're macaroning.
Happy with them ones.
[laughs] So she says.
[John] That's not working either.
This has never happened before.
What is going on?
Lovely. Lovely jubbly.
[Alison] As Georgie's macarons
begin baking…
[Mike] Coming out the oven.
…the last of the loaf cakes
are finally done.
It's in the freezer, so…
Pray to the cold gods
that it chills. [laughs]
Bakers, you have 15 minutes remaining.
Ah, help!
[Jeff] Decorations are ready.
Shards are ready.
I'm just waiting for it to cool,
and then I'll decorate.
[Mike] This is my decoration.
Obviously it'll end up on the cake
if it cools in time.
Decorations. That's my weakest part,
weakest link.
This is a glaze. This is just vanilla,
milk, and icing sugar.
[Sumayah] Looking good.
Collar's there. [exhales] Gotta breathe.
[Hazel] I'm just covering it
with white chocolate,
and hopefully,
the chocolate shards will stand up.
[John] Macarons are not good.
I'm just gonna put some in the oven.
If they're done, they're done.
[Georgie] They're ready.
Babes, hello. [laughs]
Have you just been foraging?
I've given up with baking.
-Thought I'd do some flower raising.
-What is going on here?
"And here we have today.
Look at this specimen."
[laughs]
[Gill] Still so warm.
Get your fingers crossed for me.
[Mike] Oh, God, it's gonna be so messy.
[Dylan] This is whipped
white chocolate ganache.
Chocolate ganache is on the top,
now just put the cherries on.
-[Jeff] It's melting.
-[Georgie] The vanilla ganache is not set.
What is going on?
Ugh. Oh!
[whispers] I've cracked it open.
-Bakers, you have one minute left.
-Is that it?
[gasps] I haven't filled the macarons.
The macarons won't be done.
[sing-song] Carnage!
[Sumayah] Flowers make everything better.
Love flowers.
[groans] This is not good.
-[Jeff] It's a mess.
-Bakers, your time is up.
Please step away
from your beautiful loaves.
Well done, mate.
-We did it. Yes!
-[Jeff] Yeah.
That is fantastic, sir.
Every fibre of my being's going,
"Don't melt."
That's amazing. It looks so sophisticated.
Everyone's looks ridiculously good.
Mine is melted to hell.
Oh!
[birds chirping]
[Noel] For the very first time,
the bakers will now face
the judgement of Paul and Prue.
-[Sumayah] Hi.
-[Prue] Hello, Sumayah.
-Hi, Sumayah.
-Hello.
[quirky, playful music playing]
-Well, I think it looks amazing.
-Thank you.
Looks like it's got a good strong bake.
But what does it taste like?
[Sumayah] God, I'm so scared.
[gasps] Yay, actually looks good. Sorry!
[laughs] In my opinion.
-[Alison] Looks lovely.
-[Sumayah] It's a dessert in a dessert.
[Paul] The halwa carries
a beautiful punch.
The sponge itself,
the coconut level is perfect.
But what I really like is the flake.
It falls apart,
so it's not been over-mixed.
It is so delicious.
Thank you so much.
One of the most interesting cakes
I've ever eaten. It's lovely.
I think the shards are too big.
They're like sharks' fins
swimming through the top.
-[Alison] Oh, my.
-[Paul] It's very pink.
-[Hazel] Yes.
-[Prue] It's very strongly raspberry.
-The cake itself is a bit dry.
-Slightly over-baked your cake.
It holds in the mouth
just that couple of seconds too long.
-[Paul] Looks like a scrambled egg.
-Thanks. That's what I was going for.
-[Paul] And you have a big crack as well.
-Yes, it did split in half.
-[Paul] Mmm.
-[Alison] This looks nice.
-Oh!
-[Prue] It's certainly swirly.
You'd struggle to identify linseed in that
but the lemon level is perfect.
It's quite strong. It's strong in colour
and strong in flavour.
Shame we've had a bit of melting.
That comes down to timing.
-That's straight from the 1970s.
-Yeah.
-[Paul] Wow.
-[Prue] It's very soft.
This is basically pudding.
It's absolutely delicious.
-[inhales]
-I can sit and eat the whole cake.
-Really? Oh.
-[Paul] Mmm.
It's not the most attractive thing,
but flavour-wise and texture, it's delish.
Well done.
I like the top.
It's all over the place, but it works.
Very lemony.
Love the flavour, but very heavy.
Oh! Goes down well with a cup of tea.
I wouldn't turn it down
if someone offered.
-[laughing]
-But I'm judging it.
[both laughing]
[Paul] Looks like a lava flow.
Like it's just been through a city
and picked up buildings on the way.
[Alison] There's the star, Jeff.
I can see it.
-[Paul] Yeah.
-[Prue] Quite impressive.
-Very strong lemon.
-[Paul] Almond comes through beautifully.
Your flavours are spot on,
but it looks such a mess.
Yeah.
It took a little bit longer to cook
so I lost the cooling time.
-And the icing fell off.
-You've got an extra bonus cheeky drip.
[Alison] It looks lovely inside.
Lovely marble.
-That's a beautiful cake.
-Thank you.
[Prue] Nice and orangey.
Only thing that lets you down
is your overall look.
-It doesn't look great, does it?
-No.
-The vanilla ganache didn't set.
-[Prue] But the marbling's lovely.
I love the flavour.
[Paul] Hmm.
[laughs]
[Paul] It hasn't got the height I wanted.
I added the oil in later
than I usually would.
-[Paul] It sat on it.
-Yeah.
I don't dislike it.
I just think it could be better.
-One thing I like is the height.
-[Prue] Proper loaf.
-Is there a swirl? That's the question.
-Let's have a look.
-[Paul] More of a splodge.
-[Prue] Yeah.
[Paul] What I love is cherries are sour
and you've imparted that into the sponge,
which is tricky to do.
-Okay.
-Texture's perfect.
Flavour's lovely. Very good.
-Well done.
-Thank you.
-Doing the Midlands proud.
-Of course, bab.
[Paul] Very neat. Got a good height.
I love the little parcels on the top.
-Almost looks like meringue or…
-[Prue] Boiled eggs.
-[laughs]
-[Paul] Yes.
I'm not super confident about the sponge.
[Prue] Yes, it feels a bit doughy.
[Dylan] When I was mixing the ingredients,
the yoghurt, I've missed today.
-Quite dense.
-Yeah.
Flavour-wise, flavour's good,
but the bake is… not.
[Paul] I like the decoration. It's clever.
You've got a drop in the middle.
Yeah. I had to shake the cake
to get the apple to go down,
so it's not gone all the way through.
Miso's… Mmm.
I don't think it works for me.
If you get a piece of cake by itself,
it's really not very nice.
-[Paul] No.
-Needs the apple.
You need that sweetness
'cause it's quite sour.
And I like people working outside the box,
but it's a box I don't particularly like.
That's fair enough. It's a risk you take.
-[Paul] Thank you.
-Thank you.
[Alison] That's pretty, isn't it?
The midwife in me was happy
at the release from the tin.
Like a smooth delivery.
-Like cutting the cord.
-Exactly!
-[Paul] I'll think of it like that.
-[Illiyin] Do the honours.
mm. It's exactly like a cinnamon roll.
Good.
-[gasps] Stop it. Stop it.
-[others gasp]
[Paul] Really nice. Well done.
-Thank you! [laughs]
-Congratulations!
On the birth
of your beautiful cinnamon cake.
-You deserve it.
-Thank you.
-Delicious.
It's really soft inside.
It's the cinnamon levels I love.
It's gorgeous. I love the tin, the colour.
-Just lovely.
-Well done.
-Just melts.
-Thank you.
-Definitely trying that handshake one.
-I'll have another bit.
-Go on. [laughs]
-[laughs]
[gasps]
What just happened? [laughs]
I don't know.
What a way to start.
[Christiaan] My heart broke
'cause Paul was like,
"It's not my cup of tea."
It's not like you've got a second chance.
[Andy] Firm, but fair, I'd say.
I won't take the wheels
off his car just yet. [laughs]
It went surprisingly well.
I'm glad we're off to a good start.
[Georgie] It wasn't disastrous,
but wasn't amazing.
I need to know the technical
when it comes out to be able to smash it.
[Alison] Each week, the bakers will face
a gingham-clad secret second challenge.
But this time,
there's an extra surprise awaiting them.
Welcome back, bakers.
As you can see, Jeff is not with us
'cause he's not feeling well,
but hopefully
he's gonna be back next week.
Okay, it's time for your first-ever
technical challenge.
And this one has been set for you
by the one and only Paul J. Hollywood.
-What's the "J" stand for?
-Juicy.
[all laughing]
Now, as ever,
this challenge is judged blind.
So before our judges leave, Paul,
have you got any advice for our bakers?
You'll know the cake,
but the majority of the recipe
will rely on equal quantities.
-Ooh.
-[Noel] Okay. Off you pop, you two.
Prue, go back to your dressing room.
Paul, go back to your underground kingdom.
[all laughing]
[Alison] Okay, bakers,
Paul would like you to bake
a batch of eight perfectly symmetrical
mini Battenbergs.
[Noel] Now the judges will be
looking for a light sponge
sandwiched in a silky buttercream,
coated in apricot jam
and wrapped in marzipan.
Now, you have two hours
and 15 minutes for this.
But in a change from the norm…
This is a Taste and Bake challenge.
Under your gingham cloth
is the perfect mini Battenberg.
You'll have five minutes
to inspect your Battenberg,
then you have to recreate that
with no recipe.
What?
Your five minutes start now.
[sighs]
Oh, my gosh.
-Oh.
-[John] That's not homemade.
[Christiaan] Well, it tastes delicious.
But I don't know.
I've never made a Battenberg before.
I've no idea what I'm doing.
I'm happy. I looked
at a Battenberg recipe last night.
I'm just trying to work out
how much sponge I need.
I don't think it's complicated
like a genoise or nothing like that,
so I'll go simple,
the same way I'd make a Victoria sponge.
You use equal amounts.
Paul said equal quantities,
so I'm just gonna go with that.
Marzipan. How do I do that marzipan?
I taste almond. Definitely almond extract,
but not too much of it.
[Illiyin] I've never made
marzipan in my life.
I was hoping to lift it up
and it's in a packet.
This is the Bake Off. [laughs]
[birds chirping]
I think a Battenberg is
a tricky enough challenge as it is,
and you've not even given them a recipe.
But it is the first time
we've given them an actual cake.
-What you're aiming for.
-Yeah.
When I mentioned equal quantities,
the sponge, they should know
that the weight of the eggs, to the sugar,
to the flour, etcetera,
are all gonna be the same.
The jam, equal amounts of fruit to sugar.
And then icing sugar
and the ground almonds in your marzipan.
Where they could come unstuck,
you're looking for a marzipan that's
not overworked because it'll go oily.
-Sticks to everything.
-It'll be sticky.
Secondly, the colour,
they're more pastel than radiant.
-Enough talk. Can we eat?
-Choose your Battenberg.
It is beautiful.
-Look at that. Cuts lovely.
-Mmm.
Soft sponge. The marzipan's not too thick.
The colour is good
and the almond is spot on.
-Mmm.
-Should be easy.
-It'll sort the sheep from the goats.
-[laughs]
Okay, bakers, your time is up.
On your marks.
Get set.
Bake.
The bakers must now
hand back their Battenbergs
and have just two and a quarter hours
to complete the challenge.
This is mad.
I don't really know what I'm doing.
I'm making the sponges first.
[John] All the cake is equal.
I've weighed the eggs,
so the same for butter, flour and sugar.
Maybe I'm doing it completely wrong
and probably Paul gonna
hold his head like, "Oy, ya".
[Alison] Christiaan,
you look in deep thought.
Don't know what you're doing to me,
what Paul is doing to me.
[Alison] I'm here now.
You're a fashion designer.
Could you make me a dress with no pattern?
If you model for me,
I could make it on you.
-So just make the cake on…
-On you?
-Me.
-[both laughing]
Got almond essence.
It's on the table, so it's going in.
[Georgie] I'm gonna go in
with half a teaspoon.
It can be quite strong.
So I'm just putting one.
Maybe not enough almondy.
Two. There we go.
-Hello. You got a handshake.
-I got a handshake.
-What was that like?
-It's week one!
You've already won.
-You should've just walked out.
-In my eyes, I'm a winner.
-It feels good.
-I know.
It's a good start.
-And then I saw Battenberg. [laughs]
-Ah.
[John] I've split the batter now.
I'm colouring one of them pink
to get the classic two-tone style.
Half pink, half yellow.
Pink in one half, nothing in the other.
Let's get this in the oven.
This is a bit yellow.
Middle shelf. Middle of the oven.
[Georgie] In 20 minutes, I'll check on it.
I'll make the jam now
'cause it needs to cool.
Weigh the fruit
and the same amount of jam sugar.
-Let it simmer.
-[Noel] Is that how you make jam?
-That's it?
-[laughs]
Just sugar and fruit in a saucepan?
I'm paying like 17 quid
at the farmers' market. Is that it?
-That is it. [laughs]
-That's what you do?
Right, that's that jam done.
That can cool.
In meantime, I'm gonna do the buttercream.
Buttercream's two to one
icing sugar to butter.
It's nice and smooth.
[Hazel] The jam! I forgot my jam.
-[John] You okay?
-[Hazel] Have to start again.
-[Alison] What's going on?
-The jam's too sticky.
-What makes you say that?
-I won't be able to--
[both laughing]
[birds chirping]
Baby's asleep, so do it quietly.
-Yes.
-Go on.
Bakers, you have…
Halfway through.
[both laughing]
[laughs] Thanks, guys. Great job.
[sighs] They're rising really well.
Oh, that's nice.
Smells good.
Ninety-one means cooked.
-They feel all right, look all right.
-[Georgie] Okay.
Take that off now and leave it to cool.
So we're making the marzipan.
Ground almonds. Egg white.
How on earth do you make a marzipan?
I would say it's the same amount sugar,
but what about the eggs?
-I don't know how much egg whites.
-[Georgie] Me either.
So I'm gonna put it all in
and hope for the best.
This is not right. It's like liquid.
It's runny. It's supposed to be a lump.
-Oh, sh… Too much egg.
-I've gotta start again.
Ah, it's doing something.
That's like marzipan.
I have no clue what I did,
but I think it worked. [laughs]
A bit of yellow.
[Dylan] With yellow,
you can never have enough.
That was a lot though.
I hate marzipan.
And if I'm gonna use it, I'll just buy it.
Sorry, I got distracted by your blue eyes.
They're really blue, ain't they?
They are. Giving Paul a run for his money.
No, it doesn't even give him a run.
-They're amazing.
-Thanks. Thank my mum.
-Thanks, Mum, for these beautiful eyes.
-[laughs]
I put the yellow in late, so I'll have to
give it a quick hand knead.
I'm gonna work it. Work it, you know?
I'm a bit worried
I've kind of overworked it a bit.
Oh, my God, it's so sticky.
You have 30 minutes left.
Oh, gosh.
See, now is the hard bit.
Now I've got to do the calculations.
It's just careful cutting now.
[Andy] Your brain's hurting already
and then you go, "Now add two".
I can't do-- I've got no-- [laughs, sobs]
[Christiaan] Mess up now,
there's no going back.
-When it's cut, it's cut.
-I might have messed up.
I'm comfort eating.
[Hazel] I don't think
I've got enough marzipan.
I've literally had to scrape and scrap.
[blows raspberry]
Nelly, you've saved enough marzipan
to build yourself a scarf.
Nelly, you have to save one of us.
Who would you save?
-Oh, no!
-This is not a tough decision.
Just get rid of the dead wood.
She's gonna get rid of me, I can see it.
No, I can't choose, but I do love him.
-He's my…
-Oh, God. It's the worst day of my life!
[birds chirping]
[Alison] My darling bakers,
15 minutes left.
[laughs]
It's just assembling everything now.
I quite enjoyed this.
It's like a puzzle and I like puzzles.
[Mike] This one is not neat.
-Are you enjoying yourself?
-No.
This is great.
-[Noel] See me as a gothic therapist.
-[Hazel] Okay.
When did you start baking?
-Erm…
-Yesterday?
[laughs] Looks like it, doesn't it?
[Illiyin] Now it's just a question
of the apricot jam.
Do I just wrap and roll?
[John] I'm trying
to kind of glue it together.
[Nelly] Oh, no, it's cracking.
[Sumayah] This is just a mess now.
I guess you could recognise it
as a Battenberg.
[John] One more to go.
Need to make them look pretty.
[Georgie] Trim them off, tidy them up.
-How long on the time?
-One minute left.
Oh, crying out loud.
Oh, my God.
-[John] Coat with sugar.
-Look at that, it's ruined.
These are a disaster.
[Nelly] I need to hide this one.
They're more Battenberg cubes than bars.
Bakers, your time is up. Well done.
Oh.
-Thank goodness that's over. Oh!
-[clatters]
Wrecking the place.
Please bring your Battenbergs
and place them behind your photos.
[Mike] Just don't drop them.
[John] Christiaan's are like Mr Kiplings.
[Hazel] Oh, mine are awful.
[Mike sighs heavily] Horrific.
[Alison] It's judgement time
for the bakers' first technical challenge.
It's time to welcome the judges back in.
Hello, kids.
[Alison] Paul and Prue are looking
for eight identical Battenbergs
with a light moist sponge,
silky buttercream
encased in well-structured marzipan,
all baked to taste without a recipe.
Let's start here.
I like the colour of the marzipan.
I like that.
It's nice and thin and even all round.
[Paul] Pretty neat.
There's a good zing of apricot jam
and there's not too much almond essence.
Nice blend between the apricot and almond.
Moving on.
These haven't got enough yellow in there.
-It's a bit too pale.
-Found it.
Yes. [laughs] It's all in the cake.
[Paul] Wow, that's luminous.
The flavour's okay.
-[Prue] Tastes nice.
-[Paul] It's the overall look.
-[Prue] This is very nicely shaped.
-[Paul] Colour's really strong.
-A bit violent.
-But the inside looks really good.
[Prue] All the elements are good.
-[Paul] What is this?
-[Prue] It's a bit untidy.
That's terrible.
Ends of the sponges haven't been trimmed.
This marzipan is not wrapped very well.
It's rather like loose packaging.
[Paul] Flavour's all right.
These are a bit too small.
[Prue] What happened
to the rest of the ingredients?
[Paul] The size is wrong.
The yellow's too bright.
[Prue] Marzipan's too thick.
-Oddly, that needs more almond.
-[Paul] A few issues with this one.
Okay, moving on.
These are more green than yellow.
[Prue] I think the marzipan
got overworked. It's tearing.
[Paul] The apricot jam saves it.
It does because the almond essence
is quite strong.
[Paul] This one needs to be worked
a little bit more to stop this cracking.
Bit thick, but not too bad.
Mm, good flavour.
-[Paul] No colour in this.
-[Prue] They're very neat.
[Paul] Marzipan's a bit thick.
Not enough sponge cake
and too much marzipan.
-It is just like having a marzipan…
-Yeah, marzipan sweet.
-[Prue] These look nice.
-[Paul] Bit small.
Almost petit four size, aren't they?
Don't get much almond.
But nevertheless, they are neat.
-Moving on to these.
-[Prue] Messy, bit clumsy.
[Paul] Huge. Colours are good.
But needed more colour
on the actual Battenberg.
-Good flavour. Nice and thin.
-[Prue] Very nice.
[Paul] Moving on. It's a little bit yellow
but the inside looks quite neat.
Proportion of marzipan
to sponge is pretty good.
-[Prue] Very delicious.
-[Paul] Mm, it is.
Battenberg used to be my favourite cake.
But after eating 11 of them,
I might never have another.
-[all laughing]
-[Paul] Yeah.
[Noel] Paul and Prue will now rank
the Battenbergs from worst to first.
Okay, in 11th spot, we have this one.
Whose is this?
-Mike.
-Me.
The marzipan was terrible.
It really did fall apart.
Okay, in tenth place, who's that?
Hazel, they're a bit clumsy,
but they tasted good.
In ninth spot, we have this one.
-That's mine.
-Sumayah.
-They're a bit small.
-[Sumayah chuckles] Yeah.
-[Paul] Favour's okay.
-Okay.
[Noel] Andy is in eighth place,
Illiyin is seventh,
Gill's sixth, Nelly is fifth
and Dylan fourth.
In third spot, this one. Whose is this?
John, it's a little lairy with the colour
on the marzipan, but it is very neat.
-Thank you.
-And this is number two. Who's number two?
Christiaan, a tiny bit small,
but otherwise they're perfect.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] Which means…
In first place we have Georgie.
[all cheering and applauding]
They're all right. Er, actually…
You did really well.
Good sponge, buttercream,
and thin on the marzipan. Well done.
-Thank you so much.
-Well done.
Ah!
I'm so happy. Oh, my gosh, I'm number one.
I'm gonna find something to drink tonight.
Bit daunting that was.
I'm used to following a recipe.
I'm happy I didn't come last.
Yeah, I feel like
I was bottom-middle with my loaf.
Obviously last with technical,
so I feel like it's really riding
on the showstopper tomorrow
and just hope and pray that it goes well.
[birds chirping]
[Alison] Just one challenge remains
before our first Star Baker's revealed
and someone has to leave the tent.
Back with a bang, eh?
The standard so far
is on another level, I thought.
I gave a handshake out in the signature.
[Prue] I was worried about that.
I was holding back, it took ten.
-Is this how you're gonna go on?
-No.
But there's a couple of people
who have struggled.
Christiaan in the signature
didn't do very well.
I would say Mike.
Hazel's in trouble as well.
-[Alison] Really?
-Yeah.
What about our youngest baker, Sumayah?
-[Prue] She did well in the signature.
-But struggled in the technical.
[Noel] Georgie came first.
Winning the technical catapulted her up.
I think John is doing really well.
He's got bluer eyes than you,
so he'll be gone next week.
He will. Certainly never be Star Baker.
[both laughing]
Okay, guys, this is the big one,
your first-ever showstopper challenge.
Today our lovely judges would love you
to make a hyper-realistic illusion cake.
[Alison] Now, the fillings and flavours
and types of sponge is entirely up to you.
But your cakes must be identical
to the item that you've chosen.
And that item cannot be a cake.
We don't wanna see
a hyper-realistic Victoria sponge.
-No, we don't.
-You have four hyper-realistic hours.
On your marks.
-Get set.
-Bake!
[John] Looking forward to this.
This is like really showing off
something totally different in our skills.
I like decorating cakes,
but not in four hours. [laughs]
Quite a lot of elements,
so it's quite nerve-wracking.
[clattering]
[Mike] I'm sorry.
For the bakers'
first-ever showstopper challenge,
we have set them a real corker.
[chuckles]
I feel quite sorry for them.
We want a hyper-realistic illusion cake.
And not just a cake that has
a passing resemblance to something.
It's got to look exactly like the object
they're trying to replicate,
but also taste unbelievable.
[Andy] Pass the sauce.
[Prue] I would advise them
to choose a cake that is not too soft.
I mean, not a chiffon.
If you don't use a strong sponge,
it's gonna concertina down and collapse.
We don't want half measures
or something that'd go,
"It looks a bit like an iron,
tastes awful, but it'll do."
"It'll do" will not work in the tent.
-Morning, Georgie.
-Hello.
-[Prue] Hello, Georgie.
-Hi.
Right. Georgie, tell us
all about your showstopper.
I'm actually making my chicken,
who's called Fanny.
-What?
-[Georgie] Fanny.
-Oh, I love that.
-Yeah.
She's my favourite chicken.
[Alison] Covered in over
300 fondant feathers,
Fanny will be filled with lemon curd
made using her own special eggs.
-Beautiful eggs.
-[Georgie] They're really creamy.
-Can I put an order in?
-[gasps] And I've got ducks.
-Yes, please.
-Lots of duck eggs.
-I'll have a duck.
-Yeah. What… Oh, no.
-Not the duck. Just the eggs.
-Oh.
-Yeah.
-Shredded.
[Alison] Paul!
-Bit of pancake, delicious.
-[Georgie] No.
[Sumayah] My cake is my pet duck.
We hatched him from an egg in like 2018.
He goes missing sometimes.
So if he's ever missing,
contact me. [laughs]
[Noel] Built from orange sponge,
Sumayah's feathered friend
will contain layers of orange buttercream
and balsamic strawberries.
-You've got a pet duck? What's he called?
-Yeah.
-Pato. It's Spanish for duck.
-[Noel] Is he Spanish?
-I don't think so.
-Does he speak Spanish?
-No. [laughs]
-Does he quack Spanish?
[Noel] Is your favourite duck a mallard?
No, mallards are really basic.
I like runner ducks.
Weird, innit? Ever think about your life
and think you'd be in a tent
creating the body of a duck out of cake?
-[both laughing]
-I've had nightmares.
[Alison] Whilst the judges expect
soft, delicious sponge,
the bakers' cakes must be strong enough
to make sure
they don't collapse when carved.
[Georgie] It's not a light cake.
I know they don't like dense,
but dense in a good way.
[Noel] Desperate to avoid
the dreaded D-word,
Dylan's risking
one of the softest sponges in baking.
[Dylan] That's chiffon.
Chiffon's really airy.
And to be honest,
that's the worst possible thing
you could pick for this type of cake.
[Noel] Inspired by
his love of ancient Egypt
Dylan's canopic jar, used to store
the organs after mummification,
will be made using discs
of sesame dacquoise
to support his spiced chiffon sponge.
[Dylan] It's based off a Egyptian cookie.
They have sesame seeds round the outside.
I wanted to bring sesame in it.
I have tahini buttercream
in between the layers.
You've got very much
the Middle Eastern flavours.
-Very original.
-[Paul] Love it.
[Alison] Christiaan's
also hoping to impress
with a unique flavour combination.
[Christiaan] Chocolate orange sponge cake
with olive oil and thyme.
Olive oil?
-Yeah.
-Interesting.
[Alison] He'll pipe zesty orange curd
and buttercream
between layers of olive oil sponge
to create a life-size replica
of his vintage sewing machine.
It's ambitious,
but I think it's so imaginative.
I'm rather excited about it
because I think you are making
the sewing machine that I still use.
Is it? I've got a bobbin with yarn,
so you can actually thread the machine.
I think we'd better leave you.
I'm worried about the time.
-Looking forward to this.
-I've gotta get on.
-Good luck.
-Thanks.
Now it's time for cake Jenga.
[Noel] To ensure every one of their sponge
building blocks is baked to perfection…
[Dylan] That's the chiffon,
and the dacquoise.
…managing both oven time
and temperature is key.
Seventy-five minutes,
but I think they'll need an extra 15.
-I don't wanna overbake them.
-This mix doesn't look right to me.
[Noel] But it's not heat
that's worrying Georgie.
It's so cold,
the butter keeps setting everywhere
and then you'll overwork.
I'm gonna have to remake these sponges,
but I've made this now,
so they're gonna go in the oven anyway.
[Noel] Whilst Georgie
starts a second batch of sponge…
[Georgie] Ah,
this is really stressing me out.
…the others push on with the fillings
that'll glue the illusion cakes together.
I like strawberries and balsamic.
It sounds weird, but the vinegar really
makes the strawberry flavour enhanced.
[John] This is a tequila and lime curd.
Me and my best friends
always go for brunch in the city.
We end up having too many margaritas,
end up spending so much money
that we haven't got buying clothes.
So I am making a pair of jeans.
[Alison] John's jeans will be made
from coconut sponge
filled with coconut buttercream
and lime curd,
and to recreate
the bottomless brunch experience,
he's hitting the booze.
[John] There's tequila in the syrup,
the cake and the curd.
-You want to taste the tequila.
-Sounds absolutely delicious.
-She's happy.
-Thought you might like it.
Sounds like a margarita.
[Noel] Gill also plans to woo Prue
with the help
of her mum's favourite festive tipple.
She doesn't drink a lot, but she does like
Irish cream at Christmas,
so it's in the cake, in the buttercream
and caramel as well.
[Noel] She'll sandwich her filling
with rich dark chocolate sponge
to form a replica set of bowls,
her and mum Jean's favourite sport.
-How are you? What's this?
-Fine.
-Can I touch that?
-Yeah, it's polystyrene.
[laughs] So what are you
gonna do with that?
[Gill] Try and ganache my bowling bowls.
-Ganache your bowling bowls.
-I am.
-That's not a sentence you hear every day.
-No.
"What are you up to?"
"Just ganaching my bowling bowls."
[both laugh]
Check this out. I've just made
an illusion cake of Noel Fielding.
I absolutely love it.
Bakers, you are halfway through.
I'm gonna take a bite.
[both laughing]
She actually bit me. [chuckles]
[Gill] Let's do it. Let's do it.
Oh!
[Alison] As the first of the sponges
emerge from the oven…
-[Sumayah] Oh, yes.
-…ready to be cooled then cut…
There we go. Cake done.
-[Georgie] Ah, no.
-…Georgie's first batch…
This has been in there for an hour.
…have fallen flat.
These two are cooking a lot better.
There's a better rise on them
but I need to get on to my buttercream now
'cause I'm really behind.
Hiya, Mike.
-Hello.
[Paul] Tell us all about your showstopper.
I am making a stack of books.
Er, or if it goes badly, book.
-Okay. All right.
-[all laughing]
[Noel] Built from his favourite cake,
a rich chocolate sponge
with a kick of coffee
and filled with butterscotch,
Mike's stack is dedicated
to his favourite pastime.
How many books do you reckon
you've read in your lifetime?
Hundreds. I read 50 books last year.
Have you read my book, out of interest?
Yes, I have, and it was fabulous.
-No, I haven't.
-[both laugh]
-We'll cut around that.
-It's on my TBR.
"Yes, I have, and it was fabulous,"
and then we cut there.
[Christiaan] It's a bit dark on the edges
so I'm gonna have to cut that off,
but it is what it is.
[John] This is my tequila syrup.
Really get that margarita flavour.
-Who doesn't like a marg or a tequila?
-[timer beeping]
Is that mine?
I didn't hear the timer go off.
Oh, crikey, yeah.
Seems that little bit over.
Hopefully get away with it.
Hopefully Paul won't notice.
[Noel] Celebrating his favourite
childhood flavours,
Andy's coconut sponge
will sandwich raspberry Chantilly
to build an exact replica
of his leather overnight bag.
[Paul] Is that all the sponge you've got?
-Yeah.
-For the whole bag?
[Alison] You know what you're doing.
Don't let him psyche you out.
How do you fit all your clothes
in a bag that big?
Mum said as long as you've got
a clean pair of pants and socks…
I'm with your mum.
You'll never fit a pair of pants in that.
I've only got small pants.
[both laugh]
[Alison] But Andy's modestly-sized bag
faces a foe
from the world of high fashion.
[Hazel] I've got ten Louis,
couple of Burberrys, couple of Fendis.
They're my guilty pleasure.
[Alison] Made from zesty lemon sponge
filled with lemon mascarpone cream,
Hazel's designer handbag
contains a surprise.
Oh, my God, you've got a real handle.
-Will it take the weight?
-Yes.
-I've got a structure underneath.
-You'll carry it like this up there?
-Yeah.
-I love it.
[Noel] Nelly's also taking a step
into the world of fashion.
[Nelly] I'm making a retro shoe.
When I was young,
I was always a very big girl,
so I always have to wear boys' shoes
but I always wish for this girly shoes.
That's the top. That's the heel.
Wow, it's gonna be a hell of a big shoe.
Size eight.
[Noel] Nelly's dream shoe,
complete with fondant laces,
will be built from chocolate sponge,
chocolate ganache and raspberry curd.
[Nelly] The raspberry curd
is just complement so nicely.
I just hope I will get enough in
that they can taste it.
But first I like to set everything
and then I'll carve it more.
[Alison] Carving soft sponge
into hyper-realistic replicas
of their chosen objects
will test the bakers' skill
and creativity to the limit.
My sewing machine's, like, massive.
It's gonna take a while.
[Alison] While the rest of the bakers'
illusion cakes take shape…
-[Christiaan] How's your duck coming?
-It's all right.
I'm just shoving a stick up its bum.
Lovely.
[Georgie] Are you serious? [grunts]
[Illiyin] Georgie, you good?
[Alison] …Georgie's second batch
of sponge is still in the oven.
I'm an hour behind.
Come on. You'll be all right.
I haven't got enough time. There's no way.
I've got nothing made.
There's nothing here to show.
[birds chirping]
[Noel] The sponge for Fanny,
Georgie's favourite chicken,
is finally out of the oven.
We have the rise.
See the colour difference.
I've used my eggs
and they're really bright yellow.
But I'm really behind.
I was hoping to finish
her feathers by now.
-How many do you need?
-300. I've just gotta keep going.
-[Noel] There's a duck in here as well.
-'Cause she's got a duck. I've got ducks.
-Have you?
-Yeah.
-You got a horse?
-No.
-What about a goat?
-I love goats.
When I was on my own in the house once
a goat came into my house
on its hind legs.
No way.
-Really?
-Never left.
-Ah.
-We live together now in bunk beds.
Oh, my God.
-This is a well weird conversation.
-Yeah.
-Is it helping you make 300 of these?
-[chuckles]
[Noel] For the rest of the bakers,
construction's well under way
as they finish refining
their illusion cakes' final shape.
[Gill] So my bowling bowls,
they are sort of sphere-like.
Just trying to get as many lumps and bumps
out before I put the fondant on.
[Noel] Fitting fondant
takes patience and skill.
Any mistakes or messy joins
and the bakers' illusions
will go up in smoke.
I'm making a vase of flowers.
Because it's a rectangular vase,
it needs to be very neat.
But I'm not an artistic baker,
so might not. [laughs]
[Noel] Filled with layers
of rich chocolate sponge,
peanut buttercream and caramel,
Illiyin's vase will contain
a bunch of edible flowers.
My flowers are made from fried rice paper.
So you see how it comes up,
and there you have a very pretty flower.
My mum had an obsession
with having fresh flowers.
So I was like, "I'm gonna bake 'em".
[Alison] There are just 60 minutes left.
I'm gonna just start carving now.
Oh, my God, it's all running out.
[grunts] It's all falling out. [sighs]
I've gotta get a shufti on.
It's the detail that'll take the time.
I probably am about 20 minutes behind.
The original goal was five books.
If I can do four, I'll be happy.
[Sumayah] I'm gonna melt this fondant.
When it crackles,
it kind of looks like old wood.
[Georgie] God. [blows raspberry]
This is a mess.
[Sumayah] Oh, yeah,
it's actually doing something. Looks good.
This is my cake board.
It's a little DIY project.
[Andy] I've gotta be so careful now.
Gotta get the handle on it yet.
I'm starting to see the shape now.
I'm just making pages.
-Is this what you're making?
-The Egyptian god of the underworld.
-[Noel] Anubius or something.
-[Dylan] Yeah.
-Anubis.
-I'm the only presenter in here
that would know
who the Egyptian god of the underworld is.
I'm just adding on the pocket.
I want the detail in
before I start air brushing.
That beak's a bit big.
Oh, my God.
That's my bowling mat
and that's my bowling cloth.
Happy with those.
It's the bowls,
I want them to look halfway round.
Bakers, you have 30 minutes left.
This is when things get serious.
[chuckles]
[Christiaan] I'm attaching
my details to my bake now.
Brushing some brown lustre on
just to give some tone into the leather.
-[Georgie] God.
-[Alison] How's Fanny?
She's looking a bit demented and deformed.
[Alison] Let's have a look with the eyes.
[both laughing]
-[Georgie] Oh, God.
-That is brilliant.
[Mike] I'm putting on my book titles.
[Andy] Gotta get that zip on.
[John] So we're going, like,
a summery light blue, sunglasses on.
When it dries a bit,
I can go over it again,
but I wanna get the label
and stuff done first.
[Alison] Bakers,
you've got five minutes left.
Just five minutes.
[Christiaan] Just a few last bits to do.
This is the difficult bit.
This takes me forever to do.
[Georgie] Need to tidy it up now.
She looks a mess.
-Aw.
-That's unbelievable.
Aw. Thank you.
-Ooh.
-[Noel] That's so cool.
Just brush it with oil,
it's gonna give this very shiny shoes.
[Sumayah] One wrong move
and it's over. Ugh.
-[Dylan] Whoa, that looks mad.
-[Sumayah] Thanks.
That's crazy.
[Alison] This is sick,
it looks like a real bag!
-Is it that big?
-My day bag.
-[Andy] More or less.
-[Alison] Only a few things would fit.
That's all I need.
-With these hands everything looks small.
-Yeah. And also… [laughs]
I don't know what to say to that.
I really don't know
what to say to that, Andy.
Bakers, you have
one hyper-realistic minute left.
Oh, plenty time, even for a cup of tea.
Make it like an exhibition case.
[Hazel] Oh, this is coming off here.
[Sumayah] He sits amongst
the forget-me-nots from my garden.
Bakers, that is the end
of your showstopper.
Step away from your bakes.
With pleasure.
[exhales]
Happy. First showstopper done.
Lovely.
-[Georgie] Looks literally like a duck.
-[Andy] Oh, my God.
[Georgie] Insane.
[birds chirping]
[Noel] It's time to judge the showstopping
hyper illusion cakes.
Sumayah, bring your showstopper
to the judges.
-Exceptional.
-Thank you.
[Prue] It is so cute.
I almost feel that
he could flutter off at any minute.
The detail on it, the feathers, the eyes,
the beak, it's just fantastic.
[Prue] And also the wood
round here. Beautiful.
[Paul] Very good.
It's an orange cake
with a Swiss meringue buttercream
which I put a bit of orange zest in.
And then a balsamic strawberry filling.
It's beautifully baked cake.
I love the flavours.
[Paul] Swiss buttercream, smooth.
Strawberries, delicious. Nice kick.
Terrific job. Really wonderful.
Thank you so much.
It's really clever.
You can see exactly what they are.
They do look the actual size.
Would've been nice if you got
the bowls completely spherical,
but I can see it's really hard.
[Gill] They are Irish cream sponge,
Irish cream buttercream
and Irish cream caramel.
That really works. I was worried it'd be
in everything and overwhelm.
But that is very, very good.
It could easily have been
a boring chocolate cake,
and it's really interesting.
It's very dense in flavour.
I love it.
I think it's so impressive.
It does look exactly like something
out of an Egyptian museum.
Oh, thanks.
It's clever, about the size
of the ones I've seen in the past.
He's that old.
[all laughing]
When you said you were going
to do a chiffon cake,
I thought it won't work
because it'll be too soft.
But it does work.
[Paul] Your spice blend is good.
Tahini, that's got a lovely flavour.
That is so unusual and delicious.
[Nelly] Surprise.
No, it's a shoe.
-[Paul] Should we take your toes off?
-[Prue] Ouch. [chuckles]
Your cake's beautifully baked.
Good chocolate flavour.
-Where is the raspberry?
-Inside.
You need more. Love the flavour.
You're just not getting the raspberry.
I think it's wonderful.
It's my sewing machine.
I still have my 1970s sewing machine.
Looks like that.
-I'm glad to see it's correctly threaded.
-[Christiaan] Very important.
Very few people
can thread a sewing machine any more.
-It is a bit of an art. [laughs]
-[Prue] Yes.
[Paul] The flavour?
Chocolate and orange sponge
with olive oil and thyme,
orange curd and orange buttercream.
Mm. Certainly get the thyme.
[chuckles]
The cake's very, very firm.
So it's not the best to eat.
-Okay.
-I might be a little bit more brutal.
It is massively overbaked.
It's bone dry. I don't like the flavour.
It's too sour.
It's a bit like the miso one.
I think the design is exceptional.
It's a shame about the flavour.
I think it's really amusing
and you've got
some of the detail beautifully.
-[Paul] The label and stitching.
-Great.
You could have done
a little bit more work on the fold.
It cuts well.
This is the coconut sponge
filled with a margarita curd,
a coconut Swiss meringue buttercream.
That is lovely sponge.
Mm.
Yeah. Lovely. Really nice.
You've managed to get that
margarita flavour, which is delicious.
[Prue] That's a really well executed cake.
-The actual flowers are beautifully done.
-[Paul] I like the flowers.
The vase itself,
it's the joins I can see too easily.
The top's untidy.
Yeah. The cake is double chocolate fudge,
peanut butter buttercream,
caramel and salted peanuts.
The cake's well-baked.
Flavours are amazing.
But I think the design is slightly flawed.
Hazel, would you like to bring up
your showstopper, please?
-Wow.
-[Prue] Oh, my goodness.
Look at that.
-[Alison] Wow.
-[Hazel] There.
[Paul] You can see it's a bag.
It's a bag that's been used for many years
and has been kicked around a little bit.
It's not very neat.
The cake's a little disappointing.
It's a bit solid.
Beautiful lemon flavour.
But sadly overbaked.
I think it's exceptional.
Proper look of leather, love the zip.
[Prue] Looks so real, where you've got
the stitching and the zip.
You could just open it.
It's just brilliant.
-It just has to taste good now, Andy.
-I hope so.
It's flavours from my childhood,
coconut sponge, raspberry jam
and it's coconut buttercream
with a raspberry Chantilly.
Before I've even tasted this,
it's overbaked.
Didn't hear my timer go off,
I was too busy talking.
-No, not you.
-[Andy] Yeah.
And it's really quiet, them little timers.
Dee-dee-dee.
I thought I had tinnitus. It wasn't.
-It was that timer going off.
-[laughter]
It's a bit firmer than it should be.
I tell you what,
because the filling is so good,
it's a lovely mouthful anyway.
The sharpness from the raspberry.
I love the flavour of that cake.
-[Prue] An absolute triumph.
-[exhales]
Yeah. Well done.
-[other clapping]
-[exhales] Thank you.
-She's a slightly odd shape.
-Yeah.
But I think she's lovely.
She's got a real personality.
[Paul] Yeah. It does look good.
The detail in the feathers has paid off.
What's in it?
[Georgie] Lemon curd, erm,
there's elderflower buttercream.
-[Alison] Look at that.
-[Prue] That looks pretty good. Wow.
How does Fanny taste, guys?
[all laughing]
[Paul] Erm…
I think it's absolutely lovely.
[Paul] I prefer the sponge in the middle.
The others are too dense.
-The middle one's perfect.
-That's the remade sponge.
The flavour, I really like,
that lemon lightness to it.
Yes, she's not quite the right shape.
[laughs] But I think she's great.
Thank you.
Well done.
Oh.
Mike, it's time for your showstopper.
Don't drop it. [laughs]
You can pick them up
if you want to. [laughs]
-So good.
-Incredible.
Aren't they beautiful?
I feel I ought to be able to
flap through the pages.
[Mike] It's a bit bare.
-[Prue laughing]
-Haven't written them yet.
[Prue] They look so like leather.
They are very good. Neat, rectangular.
[Prue] Beautiful.
[Mike] It's a chocolate sponge with
butterscotch Swiss meringue buttercream
and a butterscotch sauce.
[Prue] That looks like
really nice, light cake.
[Paul] Did you add coffee to that?
It's meant to make
the chocolate a bit richer.
It does what it says on the tin.
The butterscotch works beautifully well.
That's a beautiful cake, actually,
and a fantastic idea executed very well.
Ditto.
-[laughs] Thanks, Prue.
-Lovely.
-[Noel] Brilliant. Well done.
-[Mike] Thank you.
[exhales]
I'm over the moon.
I don't think, in the time,
I could have done much better
than what I've just done.
[sniffles]
But I think last in technical,
they have to be considering me to go home.
Fair judging, yeah.
But, erm, I could be leaving.
I hope not.
I can definitely say that Paul and me
do not have the same taste palate.
I definitely think that I'm in danger.
[Alison] Our first showstopper.
I think they did really well.
They all did a great job.
Who's in line for Star Baker?
-Sumayah's put herself in there.
-The duck.
[Paul] The skill was exceptional.
I think maybe John.
His flavours are just terrific.
Georgie won the technical.
Georgie did do really well.
[Noel] That chicken, it was amazing.
Shape was a little odd,
but otherwise terrific.
She did the individual feathers.
What's weird was Mike came in in trouble,
but Mike's books were incredible.
But I think there was a couple of people
who have struggled overall.
-Hazel and Christiaan.
-And Christiaan.
[Alison] I was disappointed
in Christiaan's sewing machine.
-The flavour was too sour.
-It was very overbaked.
-What about Hazel's bag?
-[Alison] Yeah.
[Paul] Again, it was overbaked.
-Oh, no.
-It's too early to send someone home.
What will happen if we don't?
Will you go into a dark room and weep?
[Noel and Alison laughing]
[birds chirping]
[tense music playing]
[Alison] Hello there, bakers.
What a great week we've had.
And I'm so happy
'cause I've got the best job
of announcing Star Baker.
This week's Star Baker is…
[tense music builds]
It's only John.
[all cheering, applauding]
Oh, my God!
[uplifting music playing]
Unfortunately,
that leaves me with the terrible job
of announcing who's going home.
It's difficult 'cause it's the first week.
We're just getting to know you.
So it's awful.
But the person who's leaving is…
[tense music playing]
-No one.
-[all sighing]
[all laughing]
No.
[Noel laughs] It's okay, Mike.
No one's going home.
[Alison] Oh, Mike.
You're not going anywhere.
But I have to say, there is a possibility
that two people will be
going home next time.
[all applauding]
Well done, guys.
You're not going anywhere.
I genuinely thought I was going.
I'm so happy that everyone is still here.
[Andy] Unbelievable. [laughs]
[Mike] I feel like we already just click
so well and everyone's so lovely.
So I'm absolutely over the moon.
Because Jeff couldn't be here,
we decided not to send anybody home.
There's also the fact that I have never
seen such a bunch of great bakers.
I didn't want to lose any of them.
Star Baker!
[Illiyin] Well done.
Star Baker in week one.
[sighs] I don't want to cry,
but I'm so proud of myself.
Oh, my God.
[exhales]
They're good tears, they're happy tears.
[Paul] Watch your flavours.
A lot of sourness in your baking.
I think I'm lucky.
My flavours have survived.
[laughs]
-Your duck was insane.
-[Sumayah] Thank you.
I mean, I would love
to get Star Baker one week.
But I'm so happy for John.
[vocalising]
There'll be lots of margaritas
to celebrate this one.
Yeah. [chuckles]
[closing theme music playing]